% Fierce Planet


# Sustainability and Sustainable Development


These are a series of models designed to demonstrate different aspects
and theories of urban sustainability.



## Preparatory Models

### Petri Dish


*Description:* shows the interaction of agents and resources (embedded
within the spatial plane that these agents randomly traverse). The
parameters of this simulation include a direct causal relationship
between resource consumption by agents and the health of these
individual agents. At the same time these environmental resources
degrade and can only regenerate when there are no agents interacting
with (consuming) them.




Demonstrates a scene where individual "patches" of the terrain have a
randomly distributed health property.




As agents move over the terrain, patches lose health.




Patches regain health once the agent has moved.




[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/petri-dish.html)






### Terrain



*Description:* as above but including the vagaries of terrain (water and
topographical variation).




[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/terrain.html)






### Settlements



*Description:* again including all the assumptions of the previous two
scenarios but introducing settlement patterns and the path dependency
(in terms of agent behaviour) that this implies.




[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/settlements.html)




## Modelling Sustainability

### Malthusian Populations



*Description:* this scenario again builds on the previous one by
introducing the dynamic of population growth as directly connected to
resource consumption and availability.


[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/malthus.html)




### Limits to Growth (the Club of Rome)



*Description:* this scenario introduces a simplified suite of
assumptions from the 1972 (rereleased in 2004) report of the Club of
Rome to again demonstrate the concept of limits to growth.


[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/limits-to-growth.html)





### The Green Revolution


*Description:* builds upon (and critiques) the classic Malthusian
scenario by acknowledging the role of technological advances in
increasing both the effectiveness and efficiency of resource utilisation
and the availability of new resource sources.


[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/green-revolution.html)











### Triple Bottom Line



*Description:* further applies the assumptions of the concept of TBL
accounting.



[Open in a new window](examples/sustainability/triple-bottom-line.html)






<!-- ## The 4 pillars of sustainability and the social ecology model -->



<!-- *Description:* as above it includes the assumptions of these two related
approaches to sustainability. -->









<!-- ## Uneven Development -->



<!-- *Description:* finally introduces the dynamic of geographic/spatial
inequality in terms of growth (reflecting the insights of Harvey and
development studies more generally). -->

